The theme for this month’s program is
“Appreciating Our ‘Gifts in Men.’”
Who of us does not enjoy being given
a fine, well-chosen gift?
For example, you brothers,
do you not take pleasure in receiving
a colorful but tasteful,
100 percent silk tie?
Or, you sisters,
do you not delight in being given
an exquisite, charming silk scarf?
But what if you took that silk tie
or silk scarf
and used it to polish your shoes?
How do you think
the giver of your gift would feel
if he saw you using his gift in that way?
Obviously, it would be misuse
and disrespect for the gift
and would insult the giver.
What is the point of our illustration?
Well, Jehovah and Jesus have given us
a fine, well-chosen gift
in the form of the elders.
But as we will discuss,
all of us must make sure
that we always show appreciation and respect
for this divine provision.
Please turn to Ephesians 4:8,
and let’s read about this gift
that Jehovah and Jesus have given us.
It reads:
“For it says:
“‘When he ascended on high
“‘he carried away captives;
he gave gifts in men.’”
You notice, by means
of Jesus’ perfect integrity,
Jesus conquered Satan and his world.
As a world conqueror,
figuratively He has plundered captives
and has given them
as gifts to the congregations.
How useful are these “gifts in men”?
Well, please look
at verses 11 and 12 for the answer:
“And he gave some as apostles,
“some as prophets,
“some as evangelizers,
“some as shepherds and teachers,
“with a view
to the readjustment of the holy ones,
“for ministerial work,
to build up the body of the Christ.”
Notice, they would be “evangelizers”
—taking the lead
in the all-important preaching
and disciple-making work.
They do not simply say to the publishers,
“Go in the preaching work.”
They say: “Come.
Come with us.
Let’s work together
in this never-to-be-repeated work.”
They’re also “shepherds”
—protecting the flock from Satan
the “murderer,”
“serpent,” “dragon,” and “lion.”
Additionally, they are “teachers”
—feeding the flock
with nourishing spiritual food.
But now we ask,
How does Jehovah tell us
that we should feel
about these hardworking “gifts in men”?
Let’s go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5,
and let’s get the answer.
At 1 Thessalonians chapter 5,
beginning in verse number 12,
notice what Jehovah says:
“Now we request you, brothers,
“to show respect
“for those who are working hard among you
“and presiding over you in the Lord
“and admonishing you;
“and to give them extraordinary consideration
“in love because of their work.
Be peaceable with one another.”
Notice, we’re told to “show respect”
for these dear brothers.
But now, let’s move to a vital question,
How can we show, demonstrate,
that we do deeply respect
and appreciate these dear brothers?
The first way:
by wholeheartedly cooperating with them.
Please turn to Hebrews 13:17,
and this scripture describes how deep
our cooperation should be, verse 17:
“Be obedient
“to those who are taking the lead among you
“and be submissive,
“for they are keeping watch over you
“as those who will render an account,
“so that they may do this
with joy and not with sighing,
for this would be damaging to you.”
Notice, we are told to “be obedient.”
Clearly, this means
that we’re supposed to comply with,
or obey, what they tell us.
Of course, that would be with the proviso:
unless they tell us to do
something that is unscriptural.
And, of course, that would be extremely rare.
We’re also told to “be submissive.”
This includes the attitude
with which we’re to be obedient
—doing so with a yielding, positive attitude.
Would it be possible to be obedient
but not submissive?
Well, what if we said:
“OK. I’ll do what the elders suggest.
I don’t want to do it, but I’ll do it.”
We would be obedient but not submissive.
However, Jehovah tells us
to display both of these qualities.
We should be obedient and submissive
even if what the elders are asking us to do
is not the best,
most efficient way to do something.
Permit me to illustrate this point.
Admittedly, the illustration
is somewhat exaggerated,
but hopefully it will make the point.
Please imagine that the elders decide
that the outside of the Kingdom Hall
needs to be painted
and that all the publishers
will be given
a small two-inch (5 cm) paintbrush
with which to paint.
Now, what could happen?
The publishers could get all upset
concerning this request of the elders,
saying, “It is ridiculous
that the elders want us
to paint
with a small two-inch (5 cm) paintbrush!”
Consequently, some could start campaigning
for the right for everyone
to use a six-inch (15 cm) paintbrush.
Others might campaign for using paint rollers
to roll the paint on the Kingdom Hall.
Still others
might start trying to build support
for renting and using a paint sprayer
to spray the paint on the Kingdom Hall.
In another camp,
ones might champion the idea
of hiring out to a contractor
the painting of the Kingdom Hall,
while another group is promoting the idea
that the Kingdom Hall
doesn’t even need to be painted.
Now, what would be the outcome?
The congregation would be divided,
the Kingdom Hall would never get painted,
publishers could end up
stumbled right out of the truth,
the elders would be very discouraged,
Jehovah would be sad,
and Satan would be made very happy.
On the other hand,
what if everyone humbly supported
the elders, perhaps thinking:
‘There’s no scripture
‘that says we can’t paint
with a two-inch (5 cm) paintbrush.
‘In fact, Hebrews 13:17 tells us
‘to “be obedient”
and “submissive” to the elders.
So why don’t we go ahead
and support the elders?’
Now what would be the outcome?
The Kingdom Hall would get painted,
the publishers would get to enjoy
a lot of good association
because they’d be working together
for a long time,
the elders would be very encouraged,
Satan would be sad,
and Jehovah’s heart would be made glad.
Well, what is the point
of this hyperbole illustration?
Being obedient and submissive
to those taking the lead
is much more important
than how something is done.
That is the attitude
that Jehovah will richly bless.
But, now, a second way we can demonstrate
that we deeply appreciate these dear brothers
is to pray for them.
Please note what the elder Paul urged
the brothers to do for him
at Romans 15:30.
Here Paul said:
“Now I urge you, brothers,
“through our Lord Jesus Christ
“and through the love of the spirit,
“that you exert yourselves with me
in prayers to God for me.”
Paul recognized
the power that he would derive
as a result of others praying for him,
and your local elders feel the same way.
But the question is,
In your personal, private prayers,
do you regularly thank Jehovah
for your “gifts in men” and entreat Jehovah
to richly supply them
with his powerful holy spirit?
Our answer to that question can reveal much
about our appreciation
for these hardworking elders.
Now let’s move to a third way
that we can demonstrate deep appreciation:
We can do so by commending the elders.
Here is a soul-searching question:
Do you periodically go up
to various elders and say something like,
“Brother Elder,
“we just want
to thank you for your hard work.
Please be assured that we appreciate it”?
However, it seems
that some publishers
never ever commend the elders
or express appreciation.
Might this not indicate
that we are taking them
and their hard work for granted?
Of course, they will not quit
if you do not give them commendation;
they primarily do their work for Jehovah.
But if you do express appreciation,
believe me,
it will be most encouraging to them.
And even though
it may really surprise the elder
the very first time you do this,
please do not hold back
this “good from those to whom it is owing.”
Appropriately,
Jehovah tells us at Proverbs 3:27:
“Do not withhold good
from those to whom you should give it
if it is within your power to help.”
And one thing
that will move us to be more aware
of commending the elders is to remember
all the good work they are doing.
Many elders are family men
who must work secularly
to provide for their families.
If he has children,
these young ones need time
and attention from their father.
He may need to help
them with their schoolwork
as well as schedule time for them
to enjoy wholesome recreation.
Most important, he cares
for the spiritual needs of his family
—regularly conducting family worship,
working with them in the ministry,
and taking them to meetings.
But in addition
to these numerous responsibilities
common to many of us,
they have voluminous additional responsibilities
as elders.
And much of the elders’ hard work
in our behalf
is not seen by the congregation.
For example, you may see
an elder giving a part on the meeting.
What you didn’t see
are the hours he spent preparing that part.
How long does it take you
to prepare a student assignment
on the midweek meeting?
Some elders have a part every week,
sometimes more than one.
While gaining experience
in speaking is certainly helpful,
the fact remains
that good talks require hard work.
But that is not all that the elders do.
They have shepherding calls to make
and judicial cases to handle.
Some elders are also busy
helping to build Kingdom Halls
and branch facilities,
serving on Hospital Liaison Committees,
volunteering at assemblies and conventions
—and elders do many other things
that are too numerous to recount.
What we see
is often only the tip of the iceberg
—90 percent of an iceberg
is unseen underwater.
At 2 Timothy 4:6,
the apostle Paul referred to himself
as “being poured out like a drink offering.”
A drink offering
was poured on the altar
and went up in smoke.
That well describes how the elders likewise
expend themselves.
Remembering all of this should move us
to regularly offer sincere commendation
to our hardworking elders.
Now we have discussed ways
that we can demonstrate
that we deeply appreciate our “gifts in men.”
We should
(1) wholeheartedly cooperate with them,
(2) pray for them,
and (3) commend them.
Thereby we will prove
that we are not even slightly like
an unappreciative recipient
of a silk tie or a silk scarf,
who uses that gift to polish his shoes.
To the contrary,
we will prove to Jehovah and Jesus
that we love, respect,
and appreciate
the divine gifts
—our “gifts in men”—
that they have so generously given to us!